# RFID-Parking-System-Arduino-Code
Find video here -> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FBBIDuJwHfM&t=13s

Arduino code for RFID based parking system using two LCD's and a Keypad 

This Project is about using RFID Reader , RFID card/tags as an identification to keep a track of users present in the parking area. Each user will have his/her own RFID card/tag which will hold the amount the user recharges after paying to the parking manager .This system is just like metro cards in some of the metropolitan cities.
When the first user enters the parking area after scanning his card. The arduino program checks in the database wheather the user is present in the database or not .If yes!, card's balance amount is checked or else the new RFID tag need to be registered with the consent of the parking manager.If the card  balance amount is less than 50 Rs then the program asks the user to recharge his card with a minimum amount of 100 Rs. But if the balance amount is greater than 50Rs then he is welcomed in the parking area. After this process is completed the user is allowed to park his car.
When user wants to leave the parking area, he is required to scan the card again.The program then displays the user , the time for which his car has been charged and also displays the amount which has been deducted from his card.
For a person who is new to the Parking lot does'nt need to worry because this parking system also accepts the users who does'nt have any RFID card/tag.For them the parking manager gives them the UserID which is then stored in the database.On comming out of the parking lot the user needs to enter the same UserID which was given to him at the time of entry. After the user enters the ID, the total amount charged to him based on the time he stayed in the parking lot is displayed and the user is required to give the amount charged manually to the parking manager.     
To Track the number of vehicles already present in the parking lot, there is a counter. For our project we used 2 bit counter to display count upto 3.If the area can accommodate more vehicles then the Green LED turns ON. And if the parking area is full then the Red LED turns ON indicating absence of space.
